===========================
 ``unettest`` Configuration
===========================

You can configure ``unettest`` to mimic any network. You can configure it with a
simple and straight-forward declarative configuration language, similar to
writing docker-compose. 

You first define the services in the network, then you write a series of tests
that are sent like requests into your network where their behavior is monitored
and tested for success.

Service Definitions
-------------------

``unettest`` is a group of fake ``service``\ s that represent a real network.
If you have multiple real-world servers or serverless microservices running and
an NGINX server is handling inbound traffic rules and routing instructions, you
can define tests for that NGINX server. ``unettest`` will create a test double
for each of your microservices--they are defined in ``unettest`` as a
``service``\ . Your NGINX.conf can talk to each of them as if they were the
real thing, but for ease of use, ``unettest`` fakes them on your own
computer--you don't even need to be connected to the internet to test your
network rules!

When you load an NGINX.conf into ``unettest``, it'll use the routing rules as
you have defined them for your production systems. Since there is a replica (as
defined by your ``unettest`` Service Definitions) of the real network on your
local machine, you can manipulate and test routing rules without leaving your
own local development environment.

Test Doubles
^^^^^^^^^^^^

And so, your first objective is to replicate whatever internet endpoints are
referenced or used by your NGINX.conf.

Say you have a web service, ``bookstore``. It has an assortment of routes. One
of them might be ::

  GET /books/non-fiction?author=davis

You also have an NGINX server.  This server is maybe doing things like 
`proxy_pass`\ ing requests from ::

  nonfictionbooks.com/authors/davis 

to your bookstore endpoint.

In the real world, your bookstore service receives ::

  GET /books/non-fiction?author=davis
  
and might return back a list of books 

* Women, Race & Class, Angela Davis
* Essays One, Lydia Davis
* The Autobiography of, Miles Davis

``unettest`` doesn't care about that. ``unettest`` is simply interested in
testing the routes.  You can assume that your bookstore service is working and
that if you did actually call it, it would return that. So we can define a
``service`` that looks like ``bookstore`` from the perspective of NGINX.

.. code-block:: yaml

  services:
    - bookstore:
      routes:
        - name: non_fiction
          route: '/books/non-fiction'
          method: 'GET'
          status: 200
          params:
            - author

This tells ``unettest`` that you have a service, ``bookstore`` that can accept
routes to ``/books/non-fiction`` and will normally return a 200. It accepts
params for author. Pretty straightforward!

And so we know we have some fancy logic in our NGINX.conf that will pass a
request from elsewhere to our venerable ``bookstore`` service. Let's make sure
that logic works.

Test Definitions
----------------

.. code-block:: yaml

  tests:
    - test_non_fiction
      send: 'GET'
      target: '/authors/davis'
      expect:
        - bookstore.non_fiction:
            called_times: 1
            method: 'GET'
            return_status: 200
            called_with:
              params:
                author: davis

This is defining a request sent to NGINX.conf and then checking against its
intenal records that what you expect to happen is actually happening. 

``target`` is the uri sent to NGINX.

``expect`` is a declarative way of checking what happened. This one is saying
that the route ``non_fiction`` declared in ``bookstore`` is called one time,
that it was called with a GET, that it returned a 200, and also that it
included the query param ``?author=davis``. Our NGINX.conf is doing this work
and here we are testing that it parsed 'davis' out of the uri and is properly
configured to pass it to ``bookstore`` as a query param.
